Analysis

As you know by now, there are a variety of different factors that impact lipid production in algae. Today, many scientists aim to maximize lipid production in algae through the manipulation of these factors; namely, genetics, which is why different strains of algae can have different reactions to the same environmental stimuli. Different strains of algae have different genes, and each gene controls a specific protein that serves a specific function. This is the "one gene-one polypeptide" hypothesis. In the field of gene therapy/modification, by figuring out which genes control specific functions, biologists can figure out ways to turn those genes on and off to produce a desired function. For example, if a gene positively affects lipid synthesis, that gene can be amplified to produce even more lipids. Therefore, the key to maximizing lipid yield is figuring out which genes affect lipid production, and then figuring out ways to amplify or suppress those genes. And progress is being made quick; in 2017, researchers at Exxon Mobil and Synthetic Genomics figured out a way to modify algae that resulted in double the lipid content. Here is a link to that video
However, gene therapy isn't the only way to maximize lipid yield. As you saw in the Nitrogen Starvation Walkthrough, a key way to increase lipid production in algae is to starve them of nutrients - specifically nitrogen. By doing this, the protein synthesis rate is decreased, and in turn, the lipid production rate is increased. Nitrogen is a key element required to build protein, as the amino acid backbone contains a NH2 group. When proteins cannot be produced, the nutrients are allotted to different macromolecules, such as lipids. During this process, the algae still have just enough nutrients to perform photosynthesis, so they keep growing. 
As you may have noticed in the models, the average lipid content of the algae in the raceway ponds was much less than the average lipid content of the algae in the controlled experiment. The reason for this is because when conducting mass scale projects like the one done in the raceway pond, there is no way to cheaply control every single factor that could result in a higher content of lipid production. Because of this, the average lipid percentage of algae in raceway ponds is far less than that in the lab. Since maximizing lipid percentage is expensive, many companies have shifted to trying to maximize pure biomass instead of trying to maximize lipid concentration. This way, companies can still produce green crude without having to spend money on controlling every factor. 
Algal biofuels seem very appealing. They are carbon neutral, take up very little space, are supported by the Department of Energy, and only require water and nutrients to grow. So how come they are not widely used today? The reason is simple- they are too expensive. The DOE stated that “a scalable, sustainable and commercially viable system has yet to emerge” and that “systems for large-scale production of biofuels from algae must be developed on scales that are orders of magnitude larger than all current worldwide algal culturing facilities combined”. This means that the infrastructure which would allow for the widespread use of algal biofuels has not been developed nor implemented yet. Therefore, if we want to start using this clean energy, we have to make an active effort to start adopting it.
